.\"
.\" Written by Rasca Gmelch, Berlin 1997, 1998
.\" Published under the GNU GPL V2
.\" Modified by Felix Braun, Berlin 2001
.\"
.TH GREQ 1x "21/Jul/2001" "" "Version 0.4"
.SH NAME
greq - Gtk-based shell tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "greq [-h?v] [-t "<window_title> "] [-l "<label> "] [(-c | -C) "<checkbox_label> "] [-d "<default_entry> " | -b | [-m] "<list>* "]

.SH DESCRIPTION
GReq is a program that lets you create GTK+ dialogs from within shell
scripts. If you are writing a shell script that needs input from a user that
would have trouble handling a command line interface, this tool may be what
you are looking for.

GReq has three basic modes of operation: (1)text entry, (2)boolean and
(3)list mode. These allow the user to (1)enter a text string, (2)choose yes
or no, or (3)select one or more of several given choices respectively. 

By default, GReq will run in text entry mode. If one of the options on the
command line is '-b' it will run in boolean mode instead. If there are one
or more parameters on the command line that don't start with a '-' GReq will
run in list mode and these parameters will be the list of values presented
to the user.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
the default for the text choice in text entry mode.

.IP -b
boolean mode, just ask the user and return 'yes' or nothing.

.IP -m
allow multiple selections in a list. All selected items
are written to standard out one per line.

.IP -l
A string that will be placed before the different entry fields. The default
is 'Value: '.

.IP -t 
The title of the dialog window. If none is given, the title is decided by
the window manager.

.IP -c/-C 
Adds a checkbox to the window using the given label. If -C is used, the
checkbox is checked by default, if -c is used it is unchecked. The status of
the checkbox is returned on standard out as 'TRUE' or 'FALSE'.

.IP -v
Print version number of greq to standard out and exit.
.SH RETURN VALUE
In text entry mode GReq returns the text entered by the user on standard
out; in boolean mode, it returns 'yes' or nothing; in list mode it returns
the choices made by the user one per line. If there was a checkbox, GReq
additionally returns 'TRUE' or 'FALSE' on a new line, depending on whether
the checkbox was checked or not when the user pressed OK. If the dialog is
cancelled, GReq returns nothing on standard out and sets the return status
to '1'. If there is an unknown option, GReq sets the retrun status to '2'.

.SH EXAMPLES

	#!/bin/sh
.br
	val=`greq -l "Number: "`
.br
	system=`greq -l "Select an item" "Linux" "Free BSD"`

.SH AUTHOR
.B Version 0.3 
by Rasca, thron@gmx.de
.br
http://home.pages.de/~rasca/
.br
.B Version 0.4
by Felix Braun <fbraun@atdot.org>
.br
GReq is published under the GNU General Public License

